Scanning with Individual Nessus Plugins
By default,
Nessus will enable a number
of plugins behind-the-scenes
when running a default template.
While this is certainly
useful in many scenarios,
we can also fine-tune our options to,
for example,
quickly run a single plugin.
We can use this feature to
validate a previous finding
or to quickly discover
all the targets vulnerable to a
specific exploit in an environment.
For this example,
we will run the NFS Exported Share
Information Disclosure plugin
against the “Beta” host in the lab.
We can use this plugin to gather
information from the RPC server
on port 111
and validate if the target is
exporting any NFS shares.
To run a scan for a single plugin,
we will once again begin with a New Scan.
This time, we will use
the Advanced Scan template.
Unlike the templates
that we used previously,
the Advanced Scan template
does not use recommendations
for scan configurations.
This template does, however,
offer a set of “Advanced” defaults
that are typically hidden
or unavailable to other templates.
The Advanced Scan also
allows us to select
individual plug-ins,
an option that is not available
to most other templates.
We’ll begin by configuring
the scan name and targets.
To save time and scan more quietly,
we will turn off
Host discovery,
since we know the host is available.
We will do this
by clicking on “Discovery”,
and deselecting “Ping the remote host”.
In addition to disabling host discovery,
we can also narrow the scanned port list
if we already know what
port the service is running on.
Since we are scanning the
RPC service and we know that RPC
is in fact running on TCP port 111,
we will only scan this port.
To set this up, we’ll select
“Port Scanning” under “Discovery”,
and enter “111” into the
“Port scan range” field.
We will also uncheck all options under the
“Local Port Enumerators” section as well.
With some of the scan
options slimmed down,
we can begin to select the plugins.
We’ll start by clicking “Disable All”
so we can start with a clean slate.
At this point, the scan will run
very quickly, but won’t do much!
To scan for open NFS shares,
we’ll navigate to
“RPC” in the left column,
and set “NFS Exported
Share Information Disclosure”
in the right column to Enabled.
Now that the scan is configured,
we are ready to launch it.
Once the scan is completed,
we can click on the scan name,
then on Beta’s IP
to open the list of
discovered vulnerabilities.
Navigating to the single critical
vulnerability and clicking on it
displays a detailed page showing
all the exported NFS shares.
Note that the scan also generated
two additional info plugin outputs.
These include details about the
scan and the result of the SYN scan.